README.md, before:

react-sticky-el
============
Sticky library for React.

#### Demos
  - [Basic](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/storybook-static/index.html)

## Installation
```sh
npm install react-sticky-el
```

## Overview & Basic Example

The elements you actually want to "stick" should be wrapped in the `<Sticky />` tag. The full list of props are available below, but typical usage will look something like so:

app.jsx
```js
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';
...

class App extends Component ({
  render() {
    return (
      ...
        <Sticky>
          <header>
            ...
          </header>
        </Sticky>
      ...
    );
  },
});

```

This will be rendered as:

```html
    <div> <!-- holder element -->
        <div> <!-- wrapper element -->
            <header>
                ...
            </header>
        </div>
    </div>
```

'Sticky' will be - `wrapper element`, `holder element` is used to reserve space in DOM when `holder element` has 'fixed' position.

When the "stickiness" becomes activated, the following inline style rules are applied to the Sticky element:

```css
  position: fixed;
  top: 0;
  left: 0;
  width: <width that was before 'stickiness'>
```

Note that the calculation of the Sticky element's height does not currently take margins into account. If you have margins on this element it may result in unexpected behavior.

### `<Sticky />` Props

#### mode _(default: 'top')_

'top' or 'bottom' - to which side element should stick

#### disabled _(default: false)_

Allows you to disable sticking by setting this prop to `true`

#### onFixedToggle _(default: null)_

This handler will be called right before changing `fixed` state.

#### boundaryElement _(default: null)_

Selector to define a `boundaryElement`.
It should be one of the parents of the current element.

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example.

#### scrollElement _(default: window)_

Selector to define a `scrollElement`. All position checks will be performed according to this element, also it will be listened for 'scroll' event.

It should be one of the parents of the current element.
Possible selectors: 'body', 'window', '#{id}', anything suitable for [Element.matches](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/API/Element/matches).

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example

app.jsx
```js
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>....</p>  
        <div className="scrollarea" style={{height: '200px', overflow: 'scroll'}}>
          <Sticky scrollElement=".scrollarea">
            <h1>Scroll pane</h1>
          </Sticky>
        </div>
        <p>....</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

```

#### positionRecheckInterval _(default: 0)_

If your DOM structure is mutating (you are adding/removing elements), it will be usefull to provide `positionRecheckInterval` greater than zero, in this case position check will be also performed using setInterval in addition to scroll events.

#### stickyStyle _(default: {})_
In the event that you wish to override the style rules applied, simply pass in the style object as a prop:

app.jsx
```js
  <Sticky stickyStyle={customStyleObject}>
    <header />
  </Sticky>
```

Note: You likely want to avoid messing with the following attributes in your stickyStyle: `left`, `top`, and `width`.

#### stickyClassName _(default: 'sticky')_
You can also specify a class name to be applied when the element becomes sticky:

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky stickyClassName={customClassName}>
    <header />
  </Sticky>

```

#### topOffset _(default: 0)_
Sticky state will be triggered when the top of the element is `topOffset` pixels from the top of the `scrollElement`. Positive numbers give the impression of a lazy sticky state, whereas negative numbers are more eager in their attachment (check .

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky topOffset={80}>
    <SomeChild />
  </Sticky>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example

#### bottomOffset _(default: 0)_
Sticky state will be triggered when the bottom of the element is `bottomOffset` pixels from the bottom of the `scrollElement`.

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky bottomOffset={80}>
    <SomeChild />
  </Sticky>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example

#### hideOnBoundaryHit _(default: true)_
If `false` then boundaryEl should have position: relative. In this case sticky element won't disappear on reaching it's boundaries. A configuration like this is implemented below.
<br />
```js
  import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';
  
  <div className = "block"  >

    <Sticky boundaryElement=".block" style = {{position: 'relative'}} hideOnBoundaryHit={false}>
    <SomeChild />

    </Sticky>
  </div>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example.

#### Other props
All other props (such as className, style, etc..) will be applyed to the `holder` element.


## Advanced usage

If you want to use some custom components and have more control, then you can use `RenderPropSticky`:

```js
import { RenderPropSticky } from 'react-sticky-el';

function StickyHeader() {
  return (
    <RenderPropSticky
        mode={mode}
        onFixedToggle={onFixedToggle}
        hideOnBoundaryHit={hideOnBoundaryHit}
        offsetTransforms={offsetTransforms}
        disabled={disabled}
        boundaryElement={boundaryElement}
        scrollElement={scrollElement}
        bottomOffset={bottomOffset}
        topOffset={topOffset}
        positionRecheckInterval={positionRecheckInterval}
        noExceptionOnMissedScrollElement={noExceptionOnMissedScrollElement}
      >
        {({ isFixed, wrapperStyles, wrapperRef, holderStyles, holderRef }) => (
          <div {...rest} ref={holderRef} style={holderStyles}>
            <div
              {...rest}
              className={`${wrapperClassName} ${isFixed ? stickyClassName : ''}`}
              style={
                isFixed ? { ...wrapperStyles, ...stickyStyles } : wrapperStyles
              }
              ref={wrapperRef}
            >
              <h1>I'm sticky!</h1>
            </div>
          </div>
        )}
      </RenderPropSticky>  
  )
}

```


## License
MIT

Commit message:

Update examples and README, make boundaryEl optional

README.md, after:

react-sticky-el
============
Sticky library for React.

#### Demos
  - [Basic](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/storybook-static/index.html)

## Installation
```sh
npm install react-sticky-el
```

## Overview & Basic Example

The elements you actually want to "stick" should be wrapped in the `<Sticky />` tag. The full list of props are available below, but typical usage will look something like so:

app.jsx
```js
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';
...

class App extends Component ({
  render() {
    return (
      ...
        <Sticky>
          <header>
            ...
          </header>
        </Sticky>
      ...
    );
  },
});

```

This will be rendered as:

```html
    <div> <!-- holder element -->
        <div> <!-- wrapper element -->
            <header>
                ...
            </header>
        </div>
    </div>
```

'Sticky' will be - `wrapper element`, `holder element` is used to reserve space in DOM when `holder element` has 'fixed' position.

When the "stickiness" becomes activated, the following inline style rules are applied to the Sticky element:

```css
  position: fixed;
  top: 0;
  left: 0;
  width: <width that was before 'stickiness'>
```

Note that the calculation of the Sticky element's height does not currently take margins into account. If you have margins on this element it may result in unexpected behavior.

### `<Sticky />` Props

#### mode _(default: 'top')_

'top' or 'bottom' - to which side element should stick

#### disabled _(default: false)_

Allows you to disable sticking by setting this prop to `true`

#### onFixedToggle _(default: null)_

This handler will be called right before changing `fixed` state.

#### boundaryElement _(default: null)_

Selector to define a `boundaryElement`.  
It should be one of the parents of the current element.

Look at these examples 
- [With Boundary Element](https://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/storybook-static/index.html?path=/story/hideonboundaryhit--hide-on-boundary-hit-1) 
- [No Boundary Element](https://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/storybook-static/index.html?path=/story/boundaryelement--no-boundary-header).

#### scrollElement _(default: window)_

Selector to define a `scrollElement`. All position checks will be performed according to this element, also it will be listened for 'scroll' event.

It should be one of the parents of the current element.
Possible selectors: 'body', 'window', '#{id}', anything suitable for [Element.matches](https://developer.mozilla.org/ru/docs/Web/API/Element/matches).

Look at the [Demos](https://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/storybook-static/index.html) for an example

app.jsx
```js
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>....</p>  
        <div className="scrollarea" style={{height: '200px', overflow: 'scroll'}}>
          <Sticky scrollElement=".scrollarea">
            <h1>Scroll pane</h1>
          </Sticky>
        </div>
        <p>....</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

```

#### positionRecheckInterval _(default: 0)_

If your DOM structure is mutating (you are adding/removing elements), it will be usefull to provide `positionRecheckInterval` greater than zero, in this case position check will be also performed using setInterval in addition to scroll events.

#### stickyStyle _(default: {})_
In the event that you wish to override the style rules applied, simply pass in the style object as a prop:

app.jsx
```js
  <Sticky stickyStyle={customStyleObject}>
    <header />
  </Sticky>
```

Note: You likely want to avoid messing with the following attributes in your stickyStyle: `left`, `top`, and `width`.

#### stickyClassName _(default: 'sticky')_
You can also specify a class name to be applied when the element becomes sticky:

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky stickyClassName={customClassName}>
    <header />
  </Sticky>

```

#### topOffset _(default: 0)_
Sticky state will be triggered when the top of the element is `topOffset` pixels from the top of the `scrollElement`. Positive numbers give the impression of a lazy sticky state, whereas negative numbers are more eager in their attachment

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky topOffset={80}>
    <SomeChild />
  </Sticky>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example

#### bottomOffset _(default: 0)_
Sticky state will be triggered when the bottom of the element is `bottomOffset` pixels from the bottom of the `scrollElement`.

app.jsx
```js

  <Sticky bottomOffset={80}>
    <SomeChild />
  </Sticky>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example

#### hideOnBoundaryHit _(default: true)_
If `false` then boundaryEl should have position: relative. In this case sticky element won't disappear on reaching it's boundaries. A configuration like this is implemented below.
<br />
```js
  import Sticky from 'react-sticky-el';
  
  <div className = "block"  >

    <Sticky boundaryElement=".block" style = {{position: 'relative'}} hideOnBoundaryHit={false}>
    <SomeChild />

    </Sticky>
  </div>

```

Look at the [Basic Demo](http://rawgit.com/gm0t/react-sticky-el/master/dist/examples/index.html) for an example.

#### Other props
All other props (such as className, style, etc..) will be applyed to the `holder` element.


## Advanced usage

If you want to use some custom components and have more control, then you can use `RenderPropSticky`:

```js
import { RenderPropSticky } from 'react-sticky-el';

function StickyHeader() {
  return (
    <RenderPropSticky
        mode={mode}
        onFixedToggle={onFixedToggle}
        hideOnBoundaryHit={hideOnBoundaryHit}
        offsetTransforms={offsetTransforms}
        disabled={disabled}
        boundaryElement={boundaryElement}
        scrollElement={scrollElement}
        bottomOffset={bottomOffset}
        topOffset={topOffset}
        positionRecheckInterval={positionRecheckInterval}
        noExceptionOnMissedScrollElement={noExceptionOnMissedScrollElement}
      >
        {({ isFixed, wrapperStyles, wrapperRef, holderStyles, holderRef }) => (
          <div {...rest} ref={holderRef} style={holderStyles}>
            <div
              {...rest}
              className={`${wrapperClassName} ${isFixed ? stickyClassName : ''}`}
              style={
                isFixed ? { ...wrapperStyles, ...stickyStyles } : wrapperStyles
              }
              ref={wrapperRef}
            >
              <h1>I'm sticky!</h1>
            </div>
          </div>
        )}
      </RenderPropSticky>  
  )
}

```


## License
MIT
